--1--

Contents
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Game Contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Initial Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Setup After the Mini Boss . . . . . . . . . 9

Tiles and Nodes. . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Node Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Node Model Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Character Activations . . . . . . . 22
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Character Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Character Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Enemy Activations . . . . . . . . . 24
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Enemy Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Enemy Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Boss Encounters . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Character Boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Estus Flask Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Luck Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Boss Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Boss Data Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Behaviour Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Boss Arcs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Starting a Boss Encounter . . . . . . . . 28
Ending a Boss Encounter . . . . . . . . 28

Equipment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Boss Activations . . . . . . . . . . . 29

The Bonfire Tile . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Post-Game Ritual . . . . . . . . . . 31

Characters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Equipment Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Upgrade Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Equipment Modifiers . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Embers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Home Base . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Blacksmith Andre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
The Firekeeper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Resting at the Bonfire . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Boss Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Boss Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Boss Activation Example . . . . . . . . . 30

Exploration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Into the Dungeon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
The Fog Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

Encounter Setup . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Encounter Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Terrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Trap Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Encounter Setup Example . . . . . . . . 18

Encounters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
The Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Activating Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Ending an Encounter . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Combat Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Target versus Hit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
The Endurance Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Enemy Data Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Pushing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Dark Souls™ series by: BANDAI NAMCO Entertainment Inc.
Game Concept: Mat Hart and Rich Loxam
Game Design: David Carl, Alex Hall, Mat Hart, Bryce
Johnston, Rich Loxam, and Jamie Perkins
Development Leads: David Carl and Alex Hall
Graphic Design & Layout: Tom Hutchings
Texture Design: Alex Cairns
Lead Writer: Sherwin Matthews
Editing: Darla Kennerud
Sculpting: Russ Charles

Campaign Rules . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Rules of the Campaign . . . . . . 33
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Adding and Dropping Players . . . . . 33
Dashing Through . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Sparks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Progressing through
the Campaign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
The Bonfire Tile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Campaign Scenarios
Using the Core Set . . . . . . . . . 34

The First Journey . . . . . . . . . . . 34
The Coiled Sword . . . . . . . . . . 36
Campaign Tracking Sheet . . . . 39

Playtesting: Steve Atkinson, Bill Boysen,
James Brannan, Adam Brown, Adam Camp,
Jessica Carl, Henry Clark, James Clark, Dan Doré,
Vaughn Ferguson, Charles Foster III, Justin Foster, David
Gardner, Jason Garvin, Alexander Horn,
Ben Josling, Fabian Kerschl, Daniel Knauss,
Jen LeGrand, Ann-Marie Manwaring,
Phil Manwaring, Brian Palmer, James Philip,
Paul Porter, Chris Rutter, Owen Rutter,
Werner Schosser, Andrew Sykes, Chris Wills

Steamforged Games: Charles Agel, Christine Agel,
Philip Andrews, Edward Ball, Gerry Brawley,
Eleanor Bridge, Corey Davies, Matt Elliot,
Jay Finnegan, Kelsey Fox, Jamie Giblin, James Hasker,
Rich Jennings, Ronan Kelly, Mike McGougan,
Blake Noden, Byron Orde, Greg Plail, Rob Taylor,
Jak Thraves, Adam Tudor, Marc Williams
Special Thanks:
All of our Kickstarter Backers and Late Pledgers

Dark Souls™, Dark Souls™ II, Dark Souls™ III & ©BANDAI NAMCO Entertainment Inc. / ©FromSoftware, Inc.

Introduction
In the beginning, the world was without form, only a colourless place shrouded by fog and
bereft of light. What little of this world existed was ruled by the Everlasting Dragons, masters
of desolate grey crags and the ancient archtrees. This was the Age of the Ancients, an era that
would last for time untold, until the advent of the First Flame.
Taking their strength from the Lord Souls found within the Flame, three of the Lords, godlike
beings born of the Dark and possessing immeasurable power, did smite the Everlasting Dragons
from the skies and destroy their kind. Thus began the Age of Fire, when humanity began to
spread throughout the land and both cities and kingdoms were formed and ruled by the Lords.
Yet for all their power, the Lords could continue their dominion only for as long as the First
Flame burned, and soon it began to wane. Fearing the end of their reign and the growing
strength of humanity, the Lords searched desperately for ways to restore the sacred fire.
Eventually, the Witch amongst their number was consumed trying to recreate the First Flame
and instead gave birth to the Flame of Chaos, beginning a great war with the demons that
issued from the corrupted fires. As the silver knights of Gwyn, Lord of Sunlight, were charred
black and fell during the conflict, he finally divined that the only way was to sacrifice himself
to the First Flame and unnaturally prolong the Age of Fire. He became the first Lord of
Cinder and in doing so unleashed the curse of undeath upon humanity, denying them their
true ascendance as long as the Age of Fire continued.
But even this was to prove only transient, the First Flame waning once again. Since that
time, countless other Lords of Cinder have linked the First Flame and prevented the coming
of darkness. Each instance has further cursed the world to continue in a torment where the
hollowed dead wander amongst the living and ancient creatures exact their wrath upon any
foolish enough to stray into their domain. It is in this miserable state that the world has now
existed for a thousand years and more, always on the brink of the Age of Dark—despite the
best efforts of the agents of the fourth Lord, the Furtive Pygmy.
You are the Chosen Undead, Bearers of the Curse. It is now upon you that the fate of this
world rests. You must journey across the realms, defeat the many enemies that will confront
you, and ultimately choose not only your destiny, but also that of this world. You may be
remembered either as Lords of Cinder yourselves, forever joining the Soul of Cinder, or as
Ashen Ones, ushering in an Age of Humanity where the curse of undeath is at last lifted—
but chaos will ultimately consume all.

Dark Souls™: The Board Game is a cooperative dungeon crawl board game for 1–4
players. To win the game, players must work together tactically to learn how to defeat
the enemies before finally confronting the boss. Players will find specific attack patterns
and weaknesses of the enemies, but they will have to be careful. If a player’s character
dies, the game does not end, but starting over comes at a cost. Each time a character
falls in combat, the whole party must return to the bonfire, and all enemies reset.
Use your resources sparingly, learn quickly, and prepare to die.

--3--

Game Contents
Characters
•
•
•
•

Assassin
Herald
Knight
Warrior

Each character has a miniature, player board, three or four
starting equipment cards, and ten class-specific treasure cards
(See ‘Treasure Deck’, p. 9).

Assassin

Herald

Knight

Warrior

Enemies
•
•
•
•
•
•

2x Sentinel
3x Silver Knight Swordsman
3x Silver Knight Greatbowman
2x Large Hollow Soldier
3x Hollow Soldier
3x Crossbow Hollow

Each enemy has a miniature and a data card.

Sentinel

Silver Knight Swordsman Silver Knight Greatbowman

Large Hollow Soldier

--4--

Hollow Soldier

Crossbow Hollow

Main Bosses & Mini Bosses
Each main boss and mini boss has a
miniature, a Health dial, a boss data card,
a deck of behaviour cards, and between
two and four treasure cards.

Main Bosses
• Dancer of the Boreal Valley
• Dragon Slayer Ornstein &
Executioner Smough

Mini Bosses
• Boreal Outrider Knight
• Gargoyle
• Titanite Demon
• Winged Knight

Dancer of the Boreal Valley

Dragon Slayer Ornstein & Executioner Smough

Boreal Outrider Knight

Gargoyle

Titanite Demon

Winged Knight

--5--

Treasure Deck
•
•
•
•
•

13x Starting Equipment Cards
40x Class-Specific Treasure Cards
60x Common Treasure Cards
10x Legendary Treasure Cards
18x Boss Treasure Cards

Assassin starting
equipment

Assassin class
treasure

Assassin transposed
treasure

Common
treasure

Boreal Outrider
Knight treasure

Herald starting
equipment

Herald class
treasure

Herald transposed
treasure

Legendary
treasure

Gargoyle
treasure

Knight starting
equipment

Knight class
treasure

Knight transposed
treasure

Dancer of the
Boreal Valley
treasure

Titanite Demon
treasure

Warrior starting
equipment

Warrior class
treasure

Warrior transposed
treasure

Ornstein &
Smough treasure

Winged Knight
treasure

Encounter Deck
12x Encounter Level 1 Cards
12x Encounter Level 2 Cards
12x Encounter Level 3 Cards

--6--

Cubes

Dice

Character Board Tokens

5x Black Dice

32x Damage Tokens (red cubes)

4x Luck Tokens

4x Blue Dice

32x Stamina Tokens (black cubes)

4x Heroic Action Tokens

2x Orange Dice

16x Level Up Tokens (white cubes)

4x Estus Flask Tokens
4x Ember Tokens

4x Green Dodge Dice

Condition Tokens

Gameplay Tokens
1x Aggro Token

10x 1 Soul Tokens

5x Bleed Condition Tokens

1x First Activation Token

5x 3 Souls Tokens

5x Poison Condition Tokens

6x 1 Wound Tokens

3x 5 Souls Tokens

5x Frostbite Condition Tokens

3x 3 Wound Tokens

1x 8 Souls Token

5x Stagger Condition Tokens

1x 5 Wound Tokens

1x Spark Dial

Terrain &
Board Elements

Board Tiles

1x Fog Gate Token
4x Treasure Chest Tokens
5x Gravestone Tokens
8x Barrel Tokens
20x Trap Tokens

1x Bonfire Tile

1x Main Boss Tile

6x Exploration Tiles

1x Mini Boss Tile

--7--

Setup
Initial Setup

1. Tile Setup

Dark Souls™: The Board Game is a game of exploration and
advancement that culminates in epic boss battles. Players set
up the game for initial exploration leading up to an encounter
with a mini boss. They then need to reset certain elements of the
game at the midpoint. After additional exploration, they face the
final encounter with a main boss.

Place the Bonfire tile on the table and set the Mini Boss tile
and Main Boss tile off to the side. Shuffle the remaining six
tiles and lay out four of the tiles around the Bonfire tile in any
way you wish, aligning their doorways as you go. Take the Fog
Gate token and place it on an empty portion of a wall on the tile
farthest from the Bonfire tile (or a tile tied for farthest from the
Bonfire tile). Place the remaining two tiles back in the box.

Fog Gate

2. Bonfire Sparks

3. Boss Selection

The bonfire has a limited number of sparks based
on the number of players. Place the spark dial on
the Bonfire tile with the dial displaying the correct number from
the table below. When the players are defeated in an encounter
(p. 19) or choose to rest at the bonfire (p. 15), turn the dial
down one number. Once the dial reads 0, the characters can no
longer rest there, and the next time a character is killed, the game
is lost.

Choose the mini boss the players would like to fight. Then find
that boss’s model, Health dial, boss data card, behaviour cards,
and boss treasure cards and set them aside. These game elements
will be used when the players reach the mini boss encounter.

1 Player

5 Sparks

2 Players

4 Sparks

3 Players

3 Sparks

4 Players

2 Sparks

--8--

4. Encounter Cards

6. Treasure Deck

The enemies the characters encounter on each tile are based on
the encounter cards. Separate the encounter cards by difficulty
level and shuffle each pile. Look at the boss data card to see the
difficulty level of each encounter leading up to that boss. Take
random encounter cards of the difficulty levels matching those
found on the boss data card. Place one encounter card face down
on each tile. Place the lower-level encounter cards near the
Bonfire tile and the higher-level encounter cards farther from
the Bonfire tile.

Find the common treasure cards and each
chosen character’s five class treasure cards.
Shuffle them together to form the treasure
deck, and place it face down on the
Treasure Deck section of the Bonfire tile.

Encounter Level 1

Encounter Level 2

Encounter Level 3

For example, in a two player game using the Assassin and
Knight, you would find all the cards with the icons shown above
to create your Treasure Deck.

7. Tokens
Separate all remaining tokens by token type, and place them
within easy reach of all players.

Setup After the Mini Boss

5. Characters
Each player should select one character and take the model,
character board, and starting equipment cards associated with
that character. Place the armour card on the character board’s
armour slot and the other cards in the hand slots and/or backup
slot. Place one Estus Flask token, one Heroic Action token, and
one Luck token on each character board. Place each selected
character model on the Bonfire tile. Collectively, the characters
are known as the party.

After the characters defeat the mini boss, perform setup
steps 1 and 2 again as detailed above. In step 3, select
a main boss instead of a mini boss, and find the game
elements for this new boss fight. Perform step 4 for the
main boss’s encounters, and skip over step 5 since the
characters are well on their way!
Instead of setting up the treasure deck in step 6, you will add
treasure to the deck. Find the five transposed treasure cards for
each character. Then find the legendary weapon cards, shuffle
those, and randomly select five of them. Add the transposed
treasure cards (five per player) and the five selected legendary
weapon cards to the treasure deck and shuffle it. From now on,
the characters have a chance to gain these more advanced items
when they draw a card from the treasure deck.

Place one Level Up token in each square hole for the Base level
of Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, and Faith (four cubes per
character).

©BNEI / ©FS, Inc.

0

Battle Axe

14
0
0
0

[0] 2
[2] 2

0

0

0

0

--9--

Tiles and Nodes
The Basics

Range

The action in Dark Souls™: The Board Game takes place on the
game’s tiles. All tiles have one or more doorways. Doorways
allow characters to travel between tiles.

Attacks and effects have a maximum range that is counted from one
model to another model, whether friendly or enemy. Range 0 0
means the models must be on the same node. Range 1 1 means
the models must be on adjacent nodes (or closer). Range 2 2
means the models can be up to two nodes apart, and so on.
Range ∞ (infinity) ∞ indicates unlimited range and can affect
any model in the encounter.

Every tile except for the Bonfire tile has a number of circular
symbols on it. These symbols, called nodes, are used for setup
and movement during encounters (p. 19) and take the place of
game board spaces used in other board games. Each node is one
of three types: basic, spawn, or terrain.

Node Model Limits
Multiple models can share the same node, even if it’s tough to
fit them on the node. So long as the players understand which
models are on which nodes, they can overlap or spread out the
models a bit as needed. Nodes do have a model limit, however.
Only three models can share a node at the same time, regardless
of how many are friendly or enemy models. If there are already
three models on a node and another model moves onto that
node, the players must push one of the three models already on
the node (p. 21).

Basic nodes are the most common type of
node. All basic nodes that are adjacent to
doorways are entry nodes as well as being
basic nodes. Entry nodes are where characters
are placed when they enter the tile.
Spawn nodes are where enemy
models are placed at the start of an
encounter.

The exception to this rule is that nodes also have a boss limit.
Only one boss model can ever be on a node. If a boss model
moves onto a node that already contains a boss, the players must
push the boss that was on the node first.

Terrain nodes are where terrain
features are placed at the start of an
encounter.
The mini boss spawn node is where the mini
boss is placed at the start of the mini boss
encounter (mini boss tile only).
The main boss spawn node is where the main
boss is placed at the start of the main boss
encounter (main boss tile only).

All green highlighted nodes are adjacent to the Herald character.

Node Movement
While in an encounter, each model must be on one of these
nodes. When a model moves, move it from its current node
to an adjacent node. An adjacent node is any node located
directly next to the model’s current node – horizontally,
vertically, or diagonally.

--10--

Characters
8

3

2

7

4

9

1
6

11

10
5

Character Boards
The stat progression area lists the Base stats for the character
as well as the upgrade tiers for those stats. Each character has
four stats they can upgrade: Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence,
and Faith. A character’s stats determine the weapons and
armour that character can use, based on the item’s minimum
stat requirements. Over the course of the game, characters can
increase their stats, allowing them to equip the more powerful
items they discover (see ‘The Firekeeper’, p. 15).

The character board for each character includes all the
information specific to that character’s class:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Name
Illustration
Heroic Action
Equipment Slots
Endurance Bar
Stat Progression
Taunt Level
Heroic Action Token Slot
Luck Token Slot
Estus Flask Token Slot
Ember Token Slot

A character’s taunt level is used when determining which
character an enemy model will attack (see ‘Encounters’, p. 19).

Estus Flask Tokens

Each class’s Heroic Action is a special limiteduse ability that can be used during encounters.
When it is used, flip the character’s Heroic
Action token from the ready side to the used side.
It cannot be used again until it is flipped back
to the ready side. At the start of the game and
each time the characters rest at the bonfire,
flip all characters’ Heroic Action tokens to the
ready side.

Each character has one Estus Flask, represented
by an Estus Flask token. One side of the token
shows a full Estus Flask, and the other shows an
empty Estus Flask. At the start of the game, the
Estus Flask is full. During a character’s activation,
they may use the Estus Flask to remove all black
and red cubes from their endurance bar (p. 20).
Once used, the Estus Flask token is flipped to
empty and cannot be used again until the Estus
Flask is refilled. All Estus Flasks are refilled when
the party rests at the bonfire.

The equipment slots hold the character’s weapons and armour
(p. 12).

Luck Tokens

The endurance bar is used during encounters to determine how
much Stamina the character can use and when that character
dies in battle (see ‘Encounters’, p. 19).

Each character has one Luck token. At the
start of the game, the Luck token is ready. Any
character may flip their Luck token to the used
side to reroll one die in their attack, block, or
dodge roll. While it is on the used side, the Luck
token cannot be used again. All Luck tokens are
flipped to the ready side when the party rests at
the bonfire.
--11--

Equipment
Equipment Cards

Upgrade Cards

Equipment governs a character’s combat capabilities. Characters
begin the game with basic equipment but will find better
equipment as the game progresses. Each equipment card
includes the following information.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Name
Illustration
Actions
Card Type
Equipment Slot
Range
Stat Requirements
Block
Resist
Dodge
Upgrade Slots
Set Symbol

1

6

Upgrades are a type of equipment
card that enhance other equipment
cards rather than benefiting the
character directly. Each weapon and
armour equipment card has a slot
2 showing whether that item
can hold zero, one, or two upgrades.
When an item is upgraded, place
the upgrade card beneath the item
so that the upgrade’s rules are
visible. (see ‘Blacksmith Andre’,
p. 14).

4

2

5

7

12

3

8

9

Weapon upgrades
provide bonuses to weapon cards
and armour upgrades
provide bonuses to armour cards
10

.

,

11

An equipment card’s actions represent an attack or special effect
used during an encounter (see ‘Character Attacks’, p. 22).

Equipment Modifiers

Each equipment card has a card type with one of several icons
designating that card as starting equipment, common treasure,
class treasure, etc. (see ‘Treasure Deck’, p. 9).

Some equipment cards have dice modifiers that add a fixed value
to the die roll or subtract a fixed value from the die roll.

While equipped, an item takes up an equipment slot on the
character board. Armour cards
go into the armour slot. Onehanded weapon cards
go into either the left-hand slot or the
right-hand slot. Two-handed weapon cards
go into either the
left-hand slot or the right hand slot and require the other slot to
be empty. A character can hold up to three weapon cards
at a time; all of these weapon cards that are not in hand slots go
into the backup slot
, which is the only slot that can hold more
than one weapon. Weapons in the backup slot provide additional
options during encounters (see ‘Character Activations’, p. 22).

For example: The 3 Stamina attack on the Estoc is shown above.
This attack would use three black dice and subtract 1 from the
total rolled. If a player rolls a 2, a 1, and a blank on the dice, the
final result is 2 damage (3 on the dice roll – 1 for the modifier).

Embers

An equipment card’s range determines the base range from
which it can attack enemies or assist allies. Note that actions
on some equipment cards specify a different range than that
equipment card’s base range.

When the players find an Ember card in the
treasure deck, place an Ember token on the
character board of one of the characters. While
a character has an Ember token, if that character
suffers 3 or more damage from an attack, reduce
the damage by 1. When the party is defeated in an encounter
and forced to rest at the bonfire, discard all Ember tokens.

Equipment cards have stat requirements that must be met (or
exceeded) for a character to use that equipment card.

A character can never have more than one Ember token. In the
rare case that the players find an Ember card in the treasure deck
when all characters already have an Ember token, shuffle the
Ember card into the treasure deck and draw a new treasure card
to replace it (without spending an additional soul).

An equipment card’s Block, Resist, and Dodge values help
protect the character from damage during encounters (see
‘Enemy Attacks’, p. 25).
The upgrade slots determine how many times the equipment
card can be upgraded at Blacksmith Andre (p. 14), and the
set symbol shows which Dark Souls™: The Board Game set the
equipment card came from.
--12--

The Bonfire Tile

5

1
3

6
2

4

Home Base
The bonfire is the primary feature of the Bonfire tile and holds
the party’s spark dial.

The Bonfire tile serves as the base of operations for the party’s
exploration, and the characters may return to it at any time they
are not in an encounter. The Bonfire tile does not have nodes,
because it is never the location for an encounter, but it does
contain numerous important features.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

The Bonfire tile has room for the treasure deck as well as a place
for players to keep their equipment cards that are not currently
in use. The spare treasure pile is the party’s inventory.

Bonfire
Treasure Deck
Inventory
Soul Cache
Blacksmith Andre
The Firekeeper

Another important party resource on the Bonfire tile is the soul
cache. Souls are the currency of Dark Souls™: The Board Game
and are used in numerous ways when interacting with the nonplayer characters, Blacksmith Andre and the Firekeeper. The
soul cache usually starts with 0 soul tokens, but in a game with
just one player, the soul cache starts with 16 soul tokens instead.
It’s dangerous to go alone, so purchase some treasure and level
up your character a bit before facing the dangers that await.

--13--

Blacksmith Andre
When the party returns to the bonfire between encounters,
they may visit Blacksmith Andre to purchase treasure, change
equipment, and upgrade equipment.
To purchase treasure, remove 1 soul from the soul cache. Draw
the top card from the treasure deck and reveal it. Any character
who meets the stat requirements may equip the item if they
wish. If no character equips the item, place it in the inventory.
The only limit to the number of times players may purchase
treasure is the number of souls in the soul cache.
Characters can change equipment only when they visit
Blacksmith Andre. To change equipment, a player can move
any weapon or armour cards from their character board to the
inventory and move any weapon or armour cards from the
inventory to their character board provided they meet the stat
requirements. A character can hold only one armour card (in
the armour slot) and up to three weapon cards (in the hand and
backup slots) at a time.

This Morning Star has been
upgraded with a Titanite
Shard, giving its attacks +1
damage. As it has only one
upgrade slot, this weapon
cannot be upgraded again.
Furthermore, the Titanite
Shard cannot ever be
removed.

Blacksmith Andre can also upgrade equipment for the party.
Upgrading weapons and armor does not have a soul cost.
• Armour upgrades
can be freely added to armour cards
or removed from armour cards.
• Weapon upgrades
can be added to weapon cards, but
they cannot be removed from the weapon later. Because this
is a permanent choice, players need to carefully consider
where to use their weapon upgrades. When an upgraded
weapon is placed in the inventory, players may wish to
turn the cards to the side to make it easy to track attached
upgrades within the pile of spare cards. Additionally, when a
character equips an upgraded weapon from the inventory, be
sure to check that they meet the upgrade’s stat requirements
as well as the weapon’s stat requirements.

--14--

This Sunless Armour has
been upgraded with a
Chloranthy Ring, helping
characters on the same node
gain extra stamina every
turn. As it is an armour
upgrade, the Chloranthy
Ring can be freely removed
or added to different armour.
Sunless Armour has two
upgrade slots, so you could
also add a second upgrade
card if you find one.

The Firekeeper

Resting at the Bonfire

The party may visit the Firekeeper to level up and restore luck.

When the party is defeated in an encounter, the characters
must rest at the bonfire. The party may also choose to rest at
the bonfire any time they are on the Bonfire tile. Resting at the
bonfire restores many of the characters’ limited resources, but it
also resets the encounter cards. This means the players will have
to fight the enemies from those encounters all over again…
but it also means they can collect additional souls from those
encounters!

To level up, a character must spend souls to increase one of their
stats. To increase a Base stat to Tier 1 costs 2 souls, to increase a
Tier 1 stat to Tier 2 costs 4 souls, and to increase a Tier 2 stat to
Tier 3 costs 8 souls. Each stat is upgraded individually, and each
character levels up individually. Players should work together
to determine which characters should level up based on the
equipment cards they have drawn.

Base to Tier 1

2 Souls

Tier 1 to Tier 2

4 Souls

Tier 2 to Tier 3

8 Souls

When the party rests at the bonfire, the following effects occur:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Turn the spark dial down one number.
Flip all Estus Flask tokens to the filled side.
Flip all Heroic Action tokens to the ready side.
Flip all Luck tokens to the ready side.
Turn all encounter cards face down.

When the players set up the tiles again after defeating a mini
boss, place the characters on the Bonfire tile. They rest at the
bonfire (without using a spark) before continuing their journey.

Characters can also restore luck at the Firekeeper. A character
must spend 1 soul to flip their Luck token to the ready side.

This character has leveled up their Strength and Dexterity to
Tier 1 (at a cost of 2 souls each) and their Faith to Tier 3 (at
a cost of 2 + 4 + 8 = 14 souls). In total, this character has spent
18 souls over the course of the game so far.

--15--

Exploration
Into the Dungeon

The Fog Gate

Players win a game of Dark Souls™: The Board Game when the
party defeats the main boss. Their initial equipment will be
insufficient to get them there, however, so they’ll need to explore
the game tiles, gaining souls to purchase treasure and level up.
They’ll want to rest at the bonfire along the way, and they’re sure
to find themselves sent back to the bonfire in defeat from time
to time. Until their sparks are exhausted, however, they’ll still
have a chance to enhance their party in the hopes of winning in
the end.

After the party defeats the encounter on the tile with the Fog
Gate token, the party may enter the boss encounter or continue
exploring tiles. If they continue exploring, they may enter the
boss encounter at any time they are not in an encounter. If they
rest at the bonfire, however, the encounter on that tile will be
reset, and they will need to fight their way back to the Fog Gate.
Boss encounters work much the same way as other encounters
but have a few additional rules specific to boss movement and
behaviour (p. 26).

The party moves from tile to tile through the doorways. When
the party enters a new tile, flip the encounter card on that tile
face up. This marks the beginning of an encounter (p. 19).
The party can freely move through tiles that already have their
encounter cards face up.

--16--

Encounter Setup
Encounter Cards

Terrain

1

Terrain features are tokens placed on terrain nodes. Each terrain
feature takes up a single node. Terrain features come in the
following types.

2

Gravestones
Gravestones block movement. At the start of a
boss encounter, the party gains information about
the boss for each gravestone (“Starting a Boss
Encounter” on page 28).

3

5

4

6

Barrels

Encounter cards give all of the information necessary to set
up an encounter. Each encounter card includes the following
information:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Barrel tokens should be placed with the barrel
side face up and the destroyed barrel side face
down. Barrels block movement and pushes, but
they can be destroyed by characters. A character
can walk, run, or dodge onto a node with a
barrel but must spend 1 additional Stamina to
do so. When they do, flip the barrel token to the
destroyed barrel side, indicating that it no longer
blocks movement and pushes. At the end of an
encounter, flip all barrel tokens back to the barrel
side in case the players face this encounter again.

Name
Enemy Spawn
Terrain Spawn
Trap Icons
Difficulty Level
Set Symbol
Place the indicated model quantities and types
on the spawn nodes based on the enemy spawn
information. Most encounters have one or more
models on each spawn node, but some have enemies
on just a single node. Find the enemy data cards for
each type of enemy in the encounter.

Chests
Chest tokens should be placed with
the closed chest side face up and the
opened chest side face down. Chests
block movement. If the party defeats
the encounter, they can open the
chest by flipping the token to the
opened chest side and immediately
drawing two cards from the treasure
deck. Characters who meet the stat
requirements may immediately equip
the revealed items. Items the players
do not equip go to the inventory. Once
opened, chests are never flipped back to
closed (even after the party rests at the
bonfire).

Place the indicated terrain tokens on the terrain
nodes based on the terrain spawn information
(see below).

If the card includes the Trap icons, the encounter
will have trap tokens as well as enemies and terrain
(see ‘Trap Tokens’, p. 18).
The difficulty of each encounter is indicated by the encounter’s
difficulty level (Level 1, 2, or 3). The higher the difficulty level,
the more challenging the encounter will be. Players should
purchase and equip new treasure before attempting to defeat
more difficult encounters.

--17--

Trap Tokens
If the encounter card has Trap icons, place
all twenty trap tokens face down and mix
them thoroughly. Place one facedown
trap token on each basic node of the tile,
excluding any basic nodes that are along
a wall that has a doorway. The first time
a character moves onto a node with a
face down trap token, flip the trap token over. If the token is
blank, nothing happens. Otherwise, the character must suffer
the damage or attempt to dodge (p. 22). A trap’s damage
cannot be blocked. Traps cannot be reset during an encounter
and will not trigger again during that encounter. At the end of
the encounter, flip all trap tokens face down, but do not move
them off their nodes. Trap tokens have no effect on enemies and
cannot be triggered by them.

Encounter Setup Example

The party moves into this tile from the
doorway on the bottom edge.
The encounter card revealed is The
Forgotten, showing two Hollow
Soldiers placed on the top left spawn
node, a Silver Knight Greatbowman
on the spawn node to the lower right,
and a barrel token on the lower left
terrain node.
The encounter is also trapped,
meaning that trap tokens are placed
on the four basic nodes that are not
adjacent to the bottom or right walls
(as they have doorways).
Finally, place the player characters on
any node along the bottom edge of
the tile.

--18--

Encounters
The Basics

Ending an Encounter

Once you’ve set up the enemies, terrain, and traps, place the
character models on the entry nodes beside the door aligned
with the tile the party moved from. Remember that a node
cannot contain more than three models.

If the party defeats all the enemies and no characters are
killed, the party wins. Remove all black and red cubes from the
characters’ endurance bars (p. 20). Then:
•

Next, choose which character led the way into the encounter
and place the Aggro token on that character’s model.
Then the battle begins!

•

If any character is killed, the party is defeated. When the party
is defeated, place all characters on the Bonfire tile and place all
soul tokens from the soul cache on the node where the character
was killed. The party must now rest at the bonfire (p. 15). To
retrieve souls from a node, one character must move onto the
node where the souls were dropped. If a character dies before
these souls are retrieved, the souls are discarded. Once the party
has entered an encounter, it cannot leave the encounter until
either the party or the encounter is defeated.

Activating Models
During an encounter, enemy models and characters take turns
activating, starting with the enemy models. Enemy models
activate all together, but only one character activates during each
character activation. In a game with the Knight, Warrior, and
Herald, for example, the activation order could be:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

If the encounter is not a boss encounter, add 2 souls per
character to the soul cache.
If the encounter is a boss encounter, add 1 soul per character
to the soul cache for each spark remaining on the bonfire.

All enemies activate.
Knight activates.
All enemies activate.
Warrior activates.
All enemies activate.
Herald activates.

No matter whether the encounter ends in victory
or defeat, give the First Activation token to the
player who is next in turn order after the last
player who activated their character. The player
with the First Activation token will activate their
character first in the next encounter.

The activation order would then return to the beginning. During
the very first character activation, the players can activate the
character of their choice. From then on, the order in which
characters activate goes clockwise around the table. When a new
encounter begins, the first character to activate is the character
who would have activated next in turn order when the previous
encounter ended.
See ‘Character Activations’ on p. 22 and ‘Enemy Activations’
on p. 24 for additional information.

--19--

Combat Basics
Target versus Hit

Enemy Data Cards
2

When a character or an enemy makes an attack, the model
that must defend against the attack is the attack’s target. Most
attacks have just a single target. Others target all opposing
models on a single node, and some boss attacks can even target
all opposing models on multiple nodes (see ‘Boss Attacks’,
p. 29). Characters never target other characters, and enemies
never target other enemies.

1

7

8
3

A character is hit by an attack even if the attack deals 0 damage
due to the target’s Block or Resist value. They could still be
pushed or suffer a condition as explained below. If a character is
able to dodge the attack, however, they are not hit by the attack.

5

4

6
9
Each enemy type in the game has a data card breaking
down how it works in the game. Enemy data cards give the
information necessary to activate that enemy or to resolve a
character’s attack against it. Each enemy data card includes the
following information:

The Endurance Bar
The endurance bar at the bottom of the character board is used
to track the character’s Stamina and Health. When a character
spends Stamina, add one black cube to the endurance bar per
each 1 Stamina spent. Begin at the left and place one cube in
each box. When a character suffers damage, add one red cube to
the endurance bar per point of damage suffered. Boxes that are
not covered represent the character’s remaining capacity to spend
Stamina or suffer damage.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

If all ten of a character’s endurance bar boxes have cubes, that
character has been killed and the party is immediately defeated.

Name
Threat Level
Attack Range
Dodge Difficulty
Block and Resist Values
Behaviour Icons
Starting Health
Enemy Icon
Set Symbol

An enemy’s threat level determines the order in which it
activates in combat (see ‘Enemy Activations’, p. 24).

When characters gain Stamina or Health, remove that many
black cubes (for Stamina) or red cubes (for Health) from the
endurance bar. If a character has no cubes to remove, gaining
additional Stamina or Health has no effect.

The attack range is the maximum range at which the enemy
model can attack characters, and its dodge difficulty determines
how hard it is for characters to dodge the attack (see ‘Enemy
Attacks’, p. 25).
The enemy’s Block value reduces the damage it suffers from
physical attacks, and its Resist value reduces the damage it
suffers from magical attacks.

3 Stamina spent, with the boxes filled from left to right

The behaviour icons are the heart of any enemy. They determine
how the enemy behaves each time it activates (p. 24).
An enemy’s starting Health is how much damage the enemy
can suffer before being defeated. When an enemy suffers
damage, place one wound token beside that enemy for each
point of damage. Once an enemy model has suffered damage
equal to (or exceeding) its Starting Health, it is removed from
the tile.

3 damage taken, with the boxes filled from right to left

--20--

Pushing

Conditions

Dark Souls™: The Board Game is a game of dynamic movement.
Moving and attacking will frequently push a model from the
node it is on to an adjacent node. Push movement does not cost
Stamina.

Some attacks inflict conditions on their target. When an attack
has a condition icon, place the corresponding condition token on
the model (or models) hit by that attack. A model can have only
one of each condition token. (For example, a model could be
affected by a Bleed token and a Poison token at the same time,
but it could not have two Bleed tokens.) When a model ends its
activation, remove any poison, frostbite, or stagger tokens from
that model. Additionally, if any models have condition tokens at
the end of an encounter, remove those condition tokens as well.

Boss models cannot be pushed by a character’s movement or
attack. The only way a boss model can be pushed is if another
boss model moves onto its node in a boss encounter with
multiple boss models (see ‘Node Model Limits’, p. 10).
If the Push icon
appears on an attack, the model (or
models) hit by the attack are pushed. The pushed model or
models are moved onto an adjacent node that is farther from
the attacking model. If there are multiple nodes farther from the
attacking model, the players choose the node.

Bleed

If the Push icon appears on an enemy’s movement, immediately
move each character on that enemy’s node onto an adjacent node
chosen by the players. Each time the enemy moves onto a node,
move each character on that node onto an adjacent node chosen
by the players. When an enemy pushes through two or three
nodes at once, it can result in a very dynamic portion of
the battle!

Poison

When a model that has a Bleed token suffers
damage, it suffers 2 additional damage. Then
remove the Bleed token.

At the end of a model’s activation, if it has a
Poison token, it suffers 1 damage.

Frostbite
A character with a Frostbite token must spend
1 additional Stamina each time it walks, runs,
or dodges. An enemy with a Frostbite token
has the movement value on its Move icons
reduced by 1.

Stagger
A character with a stagger token must spend
1 additional stamina to use their weapons’
actions. An enemy with a Stagger token has
the damage values on its attack icons
reduced by 1.

--21--

Character Activations
Overview

Character Attacks

When a character starts their activation:
•
•
•

During an activation, a character can make up to one attack
with each weapon they are holding in their hand slots. To make
an attack, the character targets an enemy within range of one of
their weapons. They choose one of that weapon’s attack options
and spend Stamina equal to the Stamina cost of that attack.
Then they roll dice matching the quantity and colour of those
shown on the chosen attack. Each pip that comes up on the
rolled die represents 1 damage.

They gain 2 Stamina.
They gain the Aggro token.
They may swap items between their backup slot and hand
slots (see ‘Equipment Cards’, p. 12).

Then the character can move and attack. Then their activation
ends, and it’s time for the next enemy activation.

Character Movement
During an activation, a character may move before attacking or
after attacking (but not both). Characters have three methods of
moving from node to node during an encounter. They are:
•
•
•

Walk (0 Stamina) – Once per activation, a character may
move 1 node without spending Stamina.
Run (1 Stamina) – Any number of times per activation, a
character may move 1 node.
Dodge (1 Stamina) – During an enemy’s activation, when a
character is attacked by the enemy, the character may move 1
node and roll to dodge (see ‘Enemy Attacks’, p. 25).

The Shortsword has two attack options. For 0 Stamina, roll two black
dice. For 2 Stamina, roll three black dice.
In general, weapons cause physical damage, and players will
subtract the target’s Block value from the damage total. Spells
or elemental weapons cause magical damage
instead, so
players will subtract the target’s Resist value from the damage
total. In either case, the enemy suffers the resulting damage. If
the enemy’s Block or Resist
value equals (or exceeds) the
damage total, the enemy suffers 0 damage. Place a number of
wound tokens beside the enemy model equal to the damage it
suffered. If the total number of wound tokens on the enemy
equals or exceeds its Health, it is destroyed. Remove the model
and the wound tokens from the tile.

Example of a movement using a walk and three runs. This
movement costs 3 Stamina.

--22--

Though many weapons simply deal damage, some have
special abilities explained in text on their cards or with icons.
This includes the Magical Damage icon explained above, the
condition icons (p. 21), and the following weapon icons.

3

1

Some weapon options specify a range that is different
from the weapon’s standard range listed on the equipment
card. An option-specific range replaces the weapon’s range
for that attack.
When a character makes an attack with the Shift icon,
they may move up to the number of nodes shown. Shift
icons that appear before the dice icons allow a character
to move before rolling the dice. Those that appear after
the dice allow the character to move after rolling the dice.
Movement from Shift icons costs 0 Stamina and does
not replace the character’s options to walk and run during
their activation.
The Dragonslayer Spear has three attack options.

Attacks with the Node icon can target all enemies on
a single node within range instead of targeting just one
enemy. Make the attack roll once, and compare it to the
Block or Resist value of each enemy on the node.

For 0 Stamina, roll one black die and one blue die; this attack causes
magical damage and may not be used against enemies at Range 0.
For 4 Stamina, roll one black die and two blue dice; this attack causes
magical damage and may not be used against enemies at Range 0.

Bows and polearms are difficult to use effectively at short
range. Weapons with the Shaft icon cannot be used
against targets at Range 0.
2

Also for 4 Stamina, roll two blue dice; this attack causes magical
damage and may not be used against enemies at range 0, but can be
used at up to range 4.

The Repeat icon allows the character to use that entire
weapon option the number of times indicated in the
circle. This represents such effects as combination attacks
with a melee weapon or rapidly firing bolts from a
repeating crossbow.

--23--

Enemy Activations
Overview

Enemy Movement

All enemy models activate during each enemy activation.
The order they activate is determined by their threat level,
beginning with the highest threat and ending with the model
with the lowest threat. For enemies with equal threat levels,
players choose the order in which the enemies activate.

The enemy Movement icon
shows how an enemy model will
move. Various smaller icons can appear around the Movement
icon, modifying how the enemy moves. This allows different
enemies to move towards or away from characters in different
patterns and at different speeds. Pay attention to each enemy’s
movement to know where they will strike next!

Non-boss enemies follow the behaviour icons on their data
cards. Bosses follow the icons on their behaviour cards instead
(see ‘Boss Activations’, p. 29). All behaviour icons are resolved
from left to right. An enemy’s behaviour can be as simple as
making one attack or can have multiple moves and/or attacks.

When an enemy model is moving towards another model, it will
stop moving when it is on the same node as its target. When an
enemy model is moving away from another model, it will stop
moving when there are no nodes farther from its target (which
usually only happens when the enemy has backed into a corner).
When two different nodes would take an enemy closer to where it
is trying to go, the players can choose which node the enemy enters.
2

1
1

2

5

1

2
1

Move 1 node
towards the
nearest character,
pushing characters
and inflicting 5
damage.

Move 1 node
away from the
character with the
Aggro token.

2
Move 2 nodes
towards the
nearest character,
pushing characters
it passes through.

5

--24--

1

The enemy moves the indicated number of nodes
closer to the character with the Aggro token.
The enemy moves the indicated number of nodes
farther from the character with the Aggro token.
The enemy moves the stated number of nodes closer
to the nearest character. If two or more characters are
tied for being nearest, the enemy moves towards the
character with the Aggro token. If the model with
the Aggro token is not tied for being the nearest, the
enemy moves towards the character with the higher
Taunt level. If the enemy movement covers multiple
nodes, determine the nearest character at the start
of the movement, not at each step.
The enemy moves the stated number of nodes farther
from the nearest character. If two or more characters
are tied for being nearest, the enemy moves farther
from the character with the Aggro token. If the model
with the Aggro token is not tied for being the nearest,
the enemy moves farther from the character with the
higher Taunt level. If the enemy movement covers
multiple nodes, determine the nearest character at
the start of the movement, not at each step.
If the Movement icon includes the Push icon, the
enemy’s movement pushes characters out of its
way (p. 21).
If the Push icon includes a number, characters
pushed out of the way suffer that amount of
damage during the push (see ‘Enemy Attacks’,
p. 25).

Enemy Attacks
There are two different types of enemy attack icons. Physical
attacks
causes physical damage, while magical attacks
cause magical damage. As with movement, various smaller icons
can appear around the attack icons, modifying how the enemy
attacks.

The attack targets the character with the Aggro
token. If that character is not within range
of
the attack, it misses and has no effect.

3

The attack targets the nearest character. If two
or more characters are tied as nearest, the enemy
attacks the character with the Aggro token. If the
model with the Aggro token is not tied for being
the nearest, the attack targets the character with the
higher Taunt level. If there are no characters within
range of the attack, it misses and has no effect.

6

For character attacks, players roll the dice and compare the roll
total to the enemy’s Block or Resist values. For enemy attacks,
the attack damage is fixed, and the player can roll to determine
how much to subtract from the damage. For both attack types,
the dice rolled depend on the Block or Resist icons on the
character’s equipped items (those in the character’s armour and
hand slots). Armour typically provides the greatest Block and
Resist values, but shields and even weapons sometimes do their
part. To make a block or resist roll:

If the attack includes the Push icon, any character
hit by the attack is pushed (p. 21) after the roll
is resolved.

5

1. Look at the enemy’s attack to determine its strength and
whether it is physical or magical.
2. Gather dice equal to the symbols shown in the character’s
equipped items’ Block icon
(for physical damage) or
Resist icon
(for magical damage).
3. Roll the dice and add them together.
4. Subtract the rolled total from the attack strength.
5. If the roll equals or exceeds the attack value, the character
suffers 0 damage. Otherwise, the character suffers the
resulting damage.

If the attack includes the Node icon, it targets all
characters in one node. This can be either the node
of the nearest character
or the node of the
character with the Aggro token
. All characters
on the node are targeted by the attack, and each
character must separately roll Block, Resist, or
Dodge. If the node is out of range, the attack
misses and has no effect.

4

5

1

Some movement behaviours include an attack
of their own. Movement attacks cause physical
damage that characters can oppose with a block
or dodge roll as usual. This attack targets all
characters on each node the enemy moves into.
(Note that it does not target characters on the
node on which the enemy started.) If an enemy
moves 2 or more nodes, this can even result in the
same character being attacked multiple times as
the enemy tramples and smashes its way through
its hapless victim.

5

Any time a character is targeted by an attack, they may attempt
to dodge the attack. Dodging is an all-or-nothing chance to
avoid damage that replaces the Block or Resist roll. The choice
whether to reduce the damage with Block or Resist or attempt
to avoid it entirely with Dodge is an important one. The right
choice depends on the character’s equipped items as well as their
current Health and Stamina. A successful dodge also means a
character is not hit by the attack (so they will not be pushed or
suffer conditions from that attack). To make a dodge roll:
1. Look at the enemy data card (or the boss’s behaviour card)
to determine the dodge difficulty 1 of the attack.
2. The character must spend 1 Stamina and can move 1 node.
3. Gather dice equal to the symbols shown in the equipped
items’ Dodge.
4. Roll the dice.
5. If the number of Dodge icons rolled equals or exceeds the
dodge difficulty, the character suffers 0 damage. Otherwise,
they are hit by the attack and suffer its full damage.

--25--

5

4

3

Attacks all
characters on the
node of the nearest
character for 5
physical damage,
then pushes them.

Attacks all
characters on the
node of character
with the Aggro
token for 4
physical damage.

Attacks the
character with the
Aggro token for 3
magical damage.

Boss Encounters
Boss Basics

Boss Data Cards
2

Boss encounters are the culmination of the party’s exploration
and advancement, a true test of the players’ skills and readiness.
Players often need to battle these bosses more than once, as
bosses have a great deal more Health than other enemies as well
as devastating attacks that can send the party back to the bonfire
to rest.

1

8

9
3

There are two types of bosses in Dark Souls™: The Board Game—
mini bosses and main bosses. They follow many of the same rules
as other enemies, but there are also some key differences. Follow
the standard rules for enemy encounters and enemy activations
except as detailed below.

5

4

6
7

10

Boss data cards include some of the same information as enemy
data cards, but they do not detail the boss’s behaviour (p. 27).
Each boss data card includes the following information:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Name
Threat Level
Behaviour Deck Size
Heat Up Point
Block and Resist Values
Special Ability
Encounter Levels
Starting Health
Mini or Main Boss Icon
Set Symbol

The Threat Level, Block Value, Resist Value, and Starting
Health all function the same way they do on enemy data cards
(see ‘Enemy Data Cards’, p. 20).
The Behaviour Deck Size and Heat Up Point are used with the
behaviour cards (p. 27).
Each boss has a Special Ability that applies to its boss
encounter. Between a boss’s special ability and its unique
behaviour cards, each boss encounter is different from the last.
The Encounter Levels determine the difficulty level of the encounter
cards used leading up to that boss (see ‘Initial Setup’, p. 8).

--26--

Behaviour Cards

Boss Arcs

1

The bases of boss models are different from those of other
enemies. They have a large X on the base that separates the base
into four distinct arcs—front, left, right, and back. These arcs are
a key part of what makes boss encounters unique, and they add
an extra layer of tactics to fighting against bosses.

4
2

3

5

Instead of behaviour icons on their data cards, bosses display a
wide range of different behaviours during a boss encounter. Each
behaviour card includes the following information:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

The Dancer of the Boreal Valley is facing the top of the page.
Above her is her front arc, to her left is her left arc, to her right
is her right arc, and behind her is her back arc.

Name
Attack Range
Dodge Difficulty
Heat Up Symbol
Behaviour Icons

Bosses always directly face an adjacent node. For a model to
directly face a node, the centre of the model’s front arc must line
up with the centre of that node. This splits the tile into four areas
defined by the four arcs of the boss. Each node on the tile is in at
least one of the four arcs. Nodes along the lines between arcs are
in both arcs, such as the nodes indicated in the diagram below.

Bosses don’t have a single Attack Range or Dodge Value like
other enemies. Instead, each behaviour card has its own attack
range and dodge value, representing how far the varied boss
attacks can reach and how difficult they are to avoid.
Boss’s behaviour cards have behaviour icons much like those
found on enemy data cards. Bosses have some additional
behaviour icons that are not found on other enemies (see ‘Boss
Movement’ and ‘Boss Attacks’ on p. 29).

The Dancer of the Boreal Valley is facing the Herald. The
nodes with green highlighting are in her front arc, the nodes
with purple highlighting are in her left arc, the nodes with
blue highlighting are in her right arc, and the nodes with red
highlighting are in her back arc.

A few of a boss’s behaviour cards have a Heat Up symbol
identifying those cards as Heat Up cards. These powerful attacks
are not used at the beginning of the encounter but come into
play after the party has significantly damaged the boss (see
‘Starting a Boss Encounter’, p. 28). Boss behaviour cards that
do not have a Heat Up symbol are starting behaviour cards.
Those that do are Heat Up behaviour cards.

--27--

Starting a Boss Encounter

When characters are on the same node as a boss, they are placed
in one of the four arcs. When a character moves onto the same
node as a boss, the character must remain in the arc they were in
before moving. If the character was in two arcs before moving,
choose which of the two arcs to move into. Place the character
touching the boss’s base within that arc. Similarly, when a character
moves off of a boss’s node or is pushed off of a boss’s node, the
character must remain in the same arc. During a push, if there are
no available nodes in that arc due to the tile’s wall, the character
can move to any adjacent node touching the wall instead.

Once the players choose to enter the Fog Gate, it’s time for a
boss encounter. There are two types of boss tile in Dark Souls
The Board Game, a mini boss tile and a main boss tile. The mini
boss tile can be identified by the mini boss spawn node located on
it. The main boss tile can be identified by the main boss spawn
node located on it.
When facing a mini boss, place just the mini boss tile on the
table. When facing a main boss, place both the mini boss and
main boss tiles down to create one large rectangular room.
Place the character models on the entry nodes beside the door,
remembering that a node cannot contain more than three
models. Then place the Aggro token on one of the characters,
and place the boss model on the Mini Boss Spawn node or
Main Boss Spawn node, as appropriate.

When a character on a boss’s node would move 1 node as part of
a walk or run, they can instead choose to move around the boss
to an adjacent arc. When a character chooses to dodge while on
a boss’s node, they can ignore the normal rules for boss arcs and
instead move to any arc or onto any adjacent node.

The next part of setting up a boss encounter is creating the boss’s
behaviour deck as follows:

To move from the front arc to the back arc, the Knight spends
1 Stamina (0 to walk + 1 to run).

1. Separate the standard behaviour cards from the Heat Up
behaviour cards.
2. Take a number of random standard behaviour cards equal
to the behaviour deck size on the boss’s data card for the
behaviour deck. (Note that there are more behaviour cards
than you will need. This allows boss encounters to be new
each time you face them!)
3. Reveal one random card from the behaviour deck for each
gravestone on a tile with a face-up encounter card.
4. Shuffle the behaviour deck and place it face down within
easy reach.
At this point, the boss encounter is ready to begin.
When the boss’s Health is reduced to its heat up point or below,
however, the boss will heat up. Take one random Heat Up
behaviour card and shuffle it into the behaviour deck. Note that
players will now need to relearn the boss’s attack pattern as well
as having to face a powerful Heat Up card.

Some boss attacks (p. 29) affect multiple nodes within an
arc or leave the boss vulnerable in one or more arcs. When
a character attacks a boss, look at the last attack icon on the
behaviour card on the top of the discard pile. If the character is
attacking a weak arc, the attack gains an additional black die.

Some bosses have special rules on their boss data card which
alter how the heat up functions, so be sure to check them before
starting a boss fight.

Remember that a character can be in more than one arc if it
is on a node along the arc line. This makes it easier to gain the
weak arc bonus, but it also means the character will be targeted
by attacks against either arc. Note that even if a character is
attacking multiple weak arcs, they gain just one black die for
attacking the boss in a weak arc.

Normal Boss Arcs

Attack Boss Arcs

Ending a Boss Encounter
After the players defeat a mini boss encounter, place that boss’s
treasure cards in the inventory. Then reset the play area to begin
additional exploration leading up to the main boss encounter
(see ‘Setup after the Mini Boss’, p. 9).
When the party defeats the main boss, they win the game! The
main bosses do have their own treasure cards, but these are used
only in campaign play (see ‘Campaigns Rules’, p. 32).

Weak Boss Arcs
--28--

Boss Activations
Overview

Boss Movement
When a boss moves towards a character, turn the boss so the
centre of its front arc faces an adjacent node that is closer to the
character. The boss then moves forward onto that node. When
moving away from a character, turn the boss so the centre of its
back arc faces an adjacent node that is farther from the character.
The boss then backs up onto that node without changing its
facing. When a boss moves towards a specific model on its own
node, the boss turns instead of moving to a new node. Turn the
boss so the centre of its front arc is facing that model.
Characters on the node with a boss do not move when the boss
is turned.
When a boss moves onto a node that contains a character, place
that character base-to-base with the boss at the centre of the
arc that was facing the character before the boss moved. The
character is then on the boss’s node and is still in that arc.

At the start of a boss’s activation, flip over its next behaviour
card and place it in a discard pile face up beside the behaviour
deck. Bosses follow the icons on their behaviour cards from left
to right as usual, but they have several icons (explained below)
that are not found on other enemies. As with some equipment
cards, some boss behaviour cards include the ever-dangerous
Repeat icon, 2 , which means the enemy will perform its entire
behaviour multiple times when resolving that behaviour card.

2

1

When the boss behaviour deck is empty at the start of a boss’s
activation, pick up the discard pile and turn it face down without
shuffling it to create the boss behaviour deck. Then combat
continues normally. The boss’s attack pattern will continue as it
was in previous activations; by watching this pattern carefully,
players can gain the edge they need to defeat the boss.

When a boss moves, it can move in a direction
without changing its facing. It simply shifts
forwards, backwards, left, or right. It does not
rotate when it does so, maintaining its arc
orientations.
The Turn icons allow a boss to turn in place.
Rotate the boss 90° to the left or right, according
to the icon shown.
The Rotate icon also allows the boss to turn in
place, making a full 180° turn.

Boss Attacks
The Leap icon allows a boss to move directly to
its target. Remove the boss from the tile and place
it on the node where its target is located. A leap’s
target can be the model with the Aggro token
or the nearest character
. There is no limit to
how many nodes a boss can travel during a leap.
The boss does not change its facing when it leaps,
so keep all arc markings in the orientation they
had before the leap was resolved.

Note that bosses do not turn when they make attacks. They
only change facing during movement. This can lead to a boss’s
attack missing characters entirely depending on its range and the
characters’ positions.
A boss’s attacks are resolved similarly to those of other enemies,
but bosses have a unique and powerful icon unavailable to other
enemies: the Area icon.

7

Some boss attacks target a specific character or
node, but many of them target multiple nodes all at
once. The Area icon indicates a multi-node attack.
The arc diagram below the attack icon shows
which arcs are affected. All characters on a node
in one of those arcs within the range of the attack
are targeted by the attack, and each character must
separately roll Block, Resist, or Dodge.

All leaps also have the Push icon . During a
leap, characters can be pushed onto any adjacent
node. They are not considered to be in any
particular arc as the boss comes crashing down on
their heads.

--29--

Boss Activation Example
Chilling Thrust

Chilling Thrust

Stage 1

Stage 2

2

1
2

2

4

The boss begins its activation and draws a behaviour card. The
first icon on the ©BNEI
card/ shows
2 movement towards the character
©FS, Inc.
with the Aggro token, and it has the Push icon.

Chilling Thrust

Chilling Thrust

Stage 4

2
2

2

At the start of the movement, the boss pushes both characters on
its node. Each character
selects a node within the same arc and is
©BNEI / ©FS, Inc.
pushed onto that node.

After the push is resolved, the boss moves towards the model with
the Aggro token. This causes the character with the Aggro token to
©BNEI / ©FS, Inc.
be pushed again, onto the only node within the boss’s front arc.

StageDeadly
6
Deadly Grasp
Grasp

2
4

4

Deadly Grasp

Chilling Thrust

Stage 5

2

2

1

4

1

4

The boss is already facing its target, so it doesn’t need to turn to
face it. Now the boss begins its 2 movement towards the character
©BNEI / ©FS, Inc.
with the Aggro token.

Stage 3

1

2

1

1

1

1

1

7

1

2

2

1

7

2

7

The boss makes its final movement forwards. There is no node
Now that the Movement icon is resolved, the second icon shows
©BNEI
/ ©FS, Inc.
©BNEI / ©FS,
available for the©BNEI
character
model
to
be
pushed
to,
so
it
is
pushed
to
7 damage at Range
1Inc.to the nearest character, also with the
/ ©FS, Inc.
©BNEI / ©FS, Inc.
an adjacent node along the wall instead.
Push icon. If the character chooses to dodge, they can move to any
adjacent node. In this case, the character chooses to block and is
pushed onto an adjacent node that is farther from the boss.

--30--

Post-Game Ritual
Whether basking in the glory of victory or writhing in the agony of defeat, after
completing a game of Dark Souls™: The Board Game, players should return all cards to
the proper decks. Be careful to keep encounter cards separated by level, treasure cards
separated by type and class, and boss materials separated for each individual boss.

--31--

Campaign Rules
Introduction
Welcome to the Dark Souls™ campaign. This is a supplementary rules set for Dark
Souls™: The Board Game for those who wish to play through a more extensive Dark
Souls™ board game experience with a more gradual progression of character stats and
equipment. This section explains how to set up a full campaign designed to last over
multiple game sessions.
Campaign play within Dark Souls™: The Board Game revolves around various scenarios
that mirror confrontations from the Dark Souls™ video game series. Campaigns are
meant to be played from start to finish in the recommended order, although they don’t
need to be played in a single session. Souls, sparks, equipment, and character levels
gained will be kept for the whole campaign unless they are spent or lost during the
play-through.

--32--

Rules of the Campaign
Below are the rules specific to campaign play that differ from the rules for playing a
non-campaign game of Dark Souls™: The Board Game. Other than these specific changes,
follow the standard rules while playing a Dark Souls™ campaign.

Setup

Sparks

The setup for Dark Souls™ campaign scenarios is largely the
same as for a standard game. Each section of a scenario has
varying numbers of exploration tiles before boss encounters,
however, based upon the length of exploration preceding the
next boss battle in the Dark Souls™ video game series. The
quantity and difficulty of the encounters are found in the
‘Campaign Scenarios Using the Core Set’ section on p. 34.
It is also important to note that some exploration areas can
contain two or more boss encounters instead of just one. Players
do not gain additional spark tokens or reset the tiles until the
final boss in an area has been defeated.

•

A group starts a campaign with the standard number of
sparks (see ‘Initial Setup’, p. 8).

•

Each time a mini boss, main boss, or mega boss is defeated,
the party gains 1 spark instead of resetting the bonfire’s
sparks.

•

The party may purchase additional sparks from the
Firekeeper at a cost of 2 souls per character in the group,
up to a maximum of the starting number of sparks. (For
example, an additional spark for a group of three player
characters would cost 6 souls, and they could have a
maximum of 3 sparks.)

Adding and
Dropping Players

Progressing through
the Campaign

During campaign play, sometimes a new player would like to join
the party part way through or an existing player is required to leave.

As you kill bosses, new bonfires are lit, opening up new areas to
explore. The campaign ends when the party runs out of sparks or
the final boss of the scenario is defeated.

New players can join a campaign that is in progress at the cost
of 1 spark each. The new player begins the game with starting
character stats and equipment. The new maximum number of
sparks is based on the new number of characters.
If a player character leaves the party, the party gains 1 spark,
the character’s equipment is added to the inventory, and the
maximum number of sparks is changed to reflect the new
number of characters.

The Bonfire Tile
When purchasing treasure from Blacksmith Andre, the cost is
increased to 2 souls per treasure card. Unwanted treasure cards
that are not used can be sold back to Blacksmith Andre for 1
soul each. These treasures are discarded and cannot be found
again during the campaign.

Dashing Through
The party has the option to dash through non-boss encounters.
After entering a room with a face-down encounter card, the
encounter begins normally by setting up the encounter and
activating the enemies. Once all enemy behaviours have been
resolved, the party may decide to dash through the encounter.
Immediately place character models on the entry nodes of a tile
connected to the current one.

The costs to level up stats at the Firekeeper change to:

No souls are rewarded for the encounter, and no Health is
restored after the encounter; players leave all red cubes on their
endurance bars. After dashing through an encounter, enemy
models are removed from the tile, the encounter card is turned
face down, and players will need to face the encounter (or dash
through it) if they travel this way again.

Base to Tier 1

4 Souls

Tier 1 to Tier 2

8 Souls

Tier 2 to Tier 3

16 Souls

Additionally, each stat on a character board can be upgraded
to Tier 4 at a cost of 20 souls. The value of any stat at Tier 4 is
considered to be 40.
--33--

Campaign Scenarios Using the Core Set

The First Journey
Dark Souls™ 1

Although it is but your first journey, the path of the Chosen Undead is a most treacherous one,
by no means simple. It will take you through the ruined streets and haunted watchtowers of
the Undead Burg, over the old stone bridge to Sen’s Fortress, and finally to the magnificent city
of Anor Londo, seat of Gwyn, Lord of Sunlight.
This will not be an easy undertaking, and enemies will befall you at every step along the way.
From your first moments inside the Undead Burg, you will be assailed by ranks of hollowed
soldiers and mindless zombies, and your only reward for defeating them will be to face the
gargoyles that stand vigil over the next destination on your path. If you prevail, you will find
that the same is also true of Sen’s Fortress, the ancient proving grounds of the gods, where
mighty titanite demons roam endlessly amongst numerous traps and pitfalls.
Finally, if you should survive to reach Anor Londo, you must prepare for battle as never
before. Awaiting you there are two of the mightiest opponents you ever might face: Dragon
Slayer Ornstein and Executioner Smough. This will be your final challenge, but it will not be
one you shall relish, for many Chosen Undead before you have fallen to them.

--34--

Section 1
Undead Burg
•
•
•
•
•
•

Bonfire Tile
Level 1 Encounter
Level 1 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Gargoyle (Mini Boss)*
Gargoyle (Mini Boss)*

* The party receives the Gargoyles’
treasure only if they defeat two Gargoyle
boss encounters back-to-back. If they
are defeated by the second Gargoyle,
they must fight both Gargoyles after
making their way back to the Fog Gate.

Section 2
Sen’s Fortress
•
•
•
•
•
•

Section 3
Anor Londo
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Bonfire Tile
Level 2 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
Ornstein & Smough (Main Boss)

--35--

Bonfire Tile
Level 1 Encounter
Level 1 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Titanite Demon (Mini Boss)

The Coiled Sword
Dark Souls™ 3
The Kingdom of Lothric is the beginning of the journey for all Ashen Ones, after the
awakening of your kind by the tolling bells. It is here that you will receive the blessing of Iudex
Gundyr and be passed the Coiled Sword, so that you may rekindle the bonfire and take the first
steps along the path of your destiny.
Lothric was once a proud city, renowned to be noble and true, its knights and priests
courageous and wise. Its ruler was King Oceiros, today known as the Consumed King, his
madness the cause for the fall of this once-grand place. Now Lothric is ruled only by the
undead, corpses that refuse to relinquish their hold over the world of the living, endlessly
wandering the battlements and city walls and spilling into the streets of the Undead
Settlement beyond.
The undead here are not alone, however, for amongst them can be found the corrupted guardians
of old. The greatest and most deadly of their number are the powerful Winged Knights, their
holy vows forgotten. These are joined by Outrider Knights from the Boreal Valley, driven to
insanity by the Eyes of the Pontiff and now little more than mindless beasts. If you are to
continue your journey into Lothric, you must defeat not only these poor, tortured souls,
but also the most powerful denizen of the High Walls: the dreaded Dancer of the Boreal Valley.

--36--

Section 1
High Wall of Lothric
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Bonfire Tile
Level 1 Encounter
Level 1 Encounter
Level 1 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Winged Knight (Mini Boss)

Section 2
Undead Settlement
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Section 3
High Wall of Lothric
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Bonfire Tile
Level 2 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
The Dancer of the Boreal Valley
(Main Boss)

--37--

Bonfire Tile
Level 1 Encounter
Level 1 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Level 2 Encounter
Level 3 Encounter
Boreal Outrider Knight (Mini Boss)

--38--

Campaign Tracking Sheet
Dark Souls™: The Board Game
Scenario in Progress

Sparks Remaining

Section Reached

Souls in Cache

Encounters in Use

Player 1 Character & Name

Player 2 Character & Name

Equipment

Equipment

Heroic Action Ready

Luck Ready

Heroic Action Ready

Luck Ready

Ember Token

Estus Ready

Ember Token

Estus Ready

Player 3 Character & Name

Player 4 Character & Name

Equipment

Equipment

Heroic Action Ready

Luck Ready

Heroic Action Ready

Luck Ready

Ember Token

Estus Ready

Ember Token

Estus Ready

Inventory

Permission granted to photocopy this page for personal use only. © Steamforged Games Ltd. 2017

--39--

Encounter Cards
Primary spawn node

Encounter level 1

Hollow Soldier

Treasure Chest

Secondary spawn node

Encounter level 2

Crossbow Hollow

Barrels

Primary terrain node

Encounter level 3

Large Hollow Soldier

Gravestone

Secondary terrain node

Silver Knight Swordsman

Trapped encounter

Silver Knight Greatbowman
Sentinel

6

Threat

Enemy Statistics
Block
Resist
(vs physical) 2 1 (vs magic)

Behaviour deck size

4

5

1

Push characters
while moving
Leap to specified
character (either
the nearest or the
character with the
Aggro token)

Starting Health

12

Heat Up Point

Enemy Attacks

Enemy Movement
Deal damage
while pushing

24

Attack the nearest
character

Move towards the
nearest character
Move towards the
character with the
Aggro token
Move number of nodes in
indicated direction

Push characters
after attack
Damage all characters
on target node

6

Attack the character
with the Aggro token
Deal physical damage

Damage all nodes in
specified arcs

6
Turn 90° right

Turn 90° left

Turn around

Neutral
boss arc

Equipment Icons

Attack
boss arc

Weak
boss arc

Deal magical
damage

Character Attacks

One-handed weapon

Weapon upgrade

1

Black dice

Deal magical damage

Two-handed weapon

Armour upgrade

2

Blue dice

Damage all enemies
on target node

Armour

Block (vs physical)

3

Orange dice

Shaft
(can’t attack at Range 0)

Upgrade slots

Resist (vs magic)

1

Move indicated number
of nodes in any direction

Push affected enemies

Other Icons
6

Taunt

1

Attack range

2

Repeat behaviour or attack

3

Dodge

Conditions
Bleed

Frostbite

Poison

Stagger

--40--
